about.md, before:

---
title: Syllabus
layout: page
---

# Syllabus

Welcome to CS 490: Guided Design in Software Engineering! This is a
course about building software that satisfies stronger properties than
“it works”: it’s about building software that is correct, reliable,
maintainable, testable, and usable. That is, this course will teach
you about how to build software *well*.

The course is structured around giving you experience in both the
theory (through readings and lectures) and the practice (through
programming assignments and a large group project) of software
engineering.

# Course Outcomes

Official course outcomes:
* Students will be able to explain the major theories and methods applicable to professional software engineering.
* Students will be able to design, implement and evaluate a computer based system to meet desired needs.
* Students will be able to function effectively on a team to accomplish a goal.
* Students will be able to use current techniques, skills and tools necessary for computing practice.

My course design is based additionally on these unofficial outcomes:
* Students will be able to assess the quality of software engineering being done at some future workplace
* Students will be competent software engineers that I wouldn’t be worried about hiring

# Prerequisites

Technically this course requires CS 280 and CS 288, which are both
courses about *how* to program. I will assume in this course that you
know how to program: that is, that if I tell you to go write some
code, you’ll be able to go do it. Since this course focuses on how to
program **well** (i.e., how to engineer software!), you first need to know
how to program at all. I’ll also assume some familiarity with command
line tools, debugging, and using a search engine: I expect that if I
ask you to go write code in some language you’ve never seen before,
you’ll be able to find the necessary components online, find an online
tutorial on the syntax, and figure out how to write that code. Put
another way, I won’t teach you how to write a program: this course
already assumes that you can do that.

As an analogy to carpentry, classes like CS 113 teach you how to build
the equivalent of a software cabinet. CS 280 and CS 288 teach you how
to build something like a software shed: pretty big, but still small
enough for one person to do on their own by combining the skills they
learned building cabinets. CS 490 is about the equivalent of building
a software high-rise: not only is it more than a single-person job,
but also there’s lots of other things you need to worry about that
don’t come up when you’re building a shed.

The first homework assignment is due immediately before the drop date,
and is intended to let you check that you have the basic skills that
will be needed for this course: it requires you to write a
well-defined program in a language you’ve never seen before.

# Topics

* What is Software Engineering?
* Software Engineering process
* Version control
* Code review
* Programming in teams
* Testing, including coverage, continuous integration, test-driven development, mutation testing, and fuzzing
* Requirements and specifications
* Programming languages
* Build systems
* Static analysis
* Debugging
* Architecture and design, including design patterns, microservice design, designing for security, and designing for scale
* Technical debt, refactoring, and maintenance
* DevOps, logging and post-mortems
* Open source software

# Grading and Assignments

Your grade is composed of the following sub-scores (in no particular order):
* 15%: Participation & Professionalism
* 15%: Individual Projects
* 45%: Group Project
* 25%: Exams (10% for the mid-term, 15% for the final)

This class will be curved: when grading, I prefer to use the whole
range available rather than scores in a tight range. That is, if an
assignment is worth 10 points, I will give grades at all the points
between 0 and 10. I will project your raw scores onto the final
distribution twice during the semester:
* after the mid-term exam
* shortly before the final exam

You will be notified of your current projected class grade via email at each of these points.

## Readings and Reading Responses

Each lecture has two kinds of readings: mandatory and "Your Choice"
readings. I expect you to read mandatory readings before coming to
class that day, and reading quizzes (see Participation &
Professionalism, below) will cover the mandatory readings only. During
the semester, you **must** complete **at least two** "Your Choice" readings:
one before the mid-term, and another before the final.
Most "Your Choice" readings are research papers from
the software engineering literature: the idea is that you will do a
deeper dive on two topics that interest you. The "Your Choice" readings
will be checked on the exams with reading questions: see the ["Your Choice" reading page](../projects/optional-readings.html).

## Participation & Professionalism

Your participation & professionalism grade is composed of two scores. 

First, your *Professionalism* score is based on the instructor’s
impression of how well you participated in class, with deductions for
distracting other students and credit for asking and answering
questions (either in person or on the course discussion board).

Second, your *Participation* score is based on reading quizzes (about topics from the mandatory
readings only - quizzes will never cover "Your Choice" readings) at the
beginning of most lectures. You get half credit on these quizzes just
for being there, and half credit for answering the reading questions
correctly (the questions will always be easy if you did the
reading). For full participation, you need to get at least a score of
60% on all quizzes over the whole semester (this gives you space to
e.g., miss a reading quiz because you were sick or have a family
emergency - there are no excuses for missing reading quizzes). Put
another way, you can miss up to 40% of the reading quiz points and
still get full participation points.

These policies are designed to encourage you to come to class. A big
part of the goal of this class is to help you develop an intuition for
what good software engineering looks like, and without coming to class
you won’t get the full benefit of that intuition.

### Remote Participation

Generally this class does not support remote participation: teaching
is much more effective, in my experience, when everyone is physically
present. However, I understand that sometimes you are sick, traveling,
or otherwise unable to come to class. I will arrange for remote participation
in any particular lecture as long as you request it at least one hour
in advance (if you're sick or in some other emergency)
or 24 hours in advance (if you're traveling or otherwise planning to be
unable to come to class). Notify the instructor via email if you need
to participate in a particular class remotely.

## Course Project (both Individual and Group)

The assignments and project for this class are designed to mirror the
experiences of a software engineer joining a new development team: you
will be “onboarded” to our codebase, make several individual
contributions, and then form a team to propose, develop and implement
a new feature. The codebase that we’ll be developing on is a remote
collaboration tool called [Covey.Town](https://www.covey.town/).
Covey.Town provides a virtual
meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous
video calls, allowing participants to drift between different
conversations, just like in real life. Covey.Town is inspired by
existing products like [Gather.Town](https://gather.town/), [Sococo](https://www.sococo.com/), and [Gatherly.IO](https://www.gatherly.io/) — but it
is an open source effort, and the features will be proposed and
implemented by you! All implementation will take place in the
TypeScript programming language, using React for the user interface.

At the end of the semester, the instructors and TAs will evaluate all
of the student projects, and select the best (in terms of usability,
code quality, test suite quality, and overall design) to merge into
the [open source Covey.Town codebase on GitHub](https://github.com/neu-se/covey.town) repository. No
additional course credit will be awarded to these teams, but these
students will have the opportunity to receive public recognition for
their project (in the form of a pull request merged into our
repository and acknowledgments in the project’s contributors list).

The project will provide hands-on experience to complement the skills taught in this class, requiring students to be able to:
* Work effectively in a small team
* Enumerate and prioritize development tasks
* Propose, design, implement and test a new feature in an existing non-toy software application
* Write code that their team members can read and review
* Review teammates’ code
* Analyze a proposed software architecture
* Use relevant software tools, such as:
    * TypeScript
    * Visual Studio Code (or similar IDE)
    * Git
    * Mocha and Jest
    * Twilio’s Programmable Video API
    * Postman

## Exams

There are two exams in this course:
* a mid-term, which is held in class about halfway through the semester (worth 10% of your course grade)
* a final exam, which is held during the university-scheduled final exam slot (worth 15% of your course grade)

Both exams will cover a range of topics discussed in lecture
and/or in the mandatory readings, from any time during the
semester up to the point when the exam is held.
The exam will be comprehensive, covering many of the topics
we discuss; I may ask about anything we covered in class or that you
were supposed to read. The exam will be conducted in person. Contact
the course staff privately via email if you are not able to attend for
any reason (e.g., you are sick or need special accommodations) and we will arrange an alternative.
See the [exams page](../exam) for more information.

# Collaboration Policy

Collaboration is generally encouraged in this course, as is consulting
online resources. You are permitted to copy small amounts of code
from any source except another student’s copy of an assignment,
*as long as you cite your source*. “Another student’s copy of an
assignment” also includes students not currently enrolled in the
course - e.g., students who took this class in previous semesters or
took classes that used similar individual projects at other
institutions. To make this more clear, here are some examples of
acceptable and unacceptable collaboration on a programming assignment
in this course:

Acceptable collaborations:
* Discuss problems/solutions/anything with any number of other students (as long as you don’t look at each other’s code).
* Copy a short (about 10 lines or fewer - use your judgment) snippet from [stackoverflow.com](stackoverflow.com) or a similar source, as long as you include a comment with the source URL.
* Copy code written by one of your teammates during the group project for another part of the group project.
* Copy code from the output of a large language model such as ChatGPT that you prompted yourself,
if you include a link to a record of your interaction with the model (e.g., ChatGPT's "share" feature)
as a code comment.

Unacceptable collaborations:
* Copy code directly from another student on an individual project.
* Copy code from another group on a group project.
* Copy a significant portion (more than about 10 lines of code or a single method - use your judgment) of your assignment from the internet, even if you cite your source.
* Copy a short snippet from the internet without citing your source.
* Copy code from the output of a large language model (such as ChatGPT) without citing your source
* Copy code from the output of a large language model prompted by someone other than you (or your teammates,
for the group project)

These rules are intended to mimic what is acceptable in industry when
working as a software engineer: using the resources available to you,
such as your teammates and the wider internet, is always allowed. But,
it would be illegal to copy code from a competing company working on a
similar product.

# Consequences of Violating the Collaboration Policy

(From the University)

“Academic Integrity is the cornerstone of higher education and is central to the ideals of this course and the university. Cheating is strictly prohibited and devalues the degree that you are working on. As a member of the NJIT community, it is your responsibility to protect your educational investment by knowing and following the academic code of integrity policy that is found at: http://www5.njit.edu/policies/sites/policies/files/academic-integrity-code.pdf.   

Please note that it is my professional obligation and responsibility to report any academic misconduct to the Dean of Students Office. Any student found in violation of the code by cheating, plagiarizing or using any online software inappropriately will result in disciplinary action. This may include a failing grade of F, and/or suspension or dismissal from the university. If you have any questions about the code of Academic Integrity, please contact the Dean of Students Office at dos@njit.edu”

# Late Policy

You may use up to two late days on Individual Projects 1 and 2 (in
total: either 2 on one of the two or one on each) without
penalty. Assignments turned in after your second late day will not be
accepted.

Your group may use up to two late days on the Group Projects (in
total). Assignments turned in after your group’s second late day will
not be accepted.

You may not use late days on Individual Project 0, the Group Project
Class Demo, or the Group Project Final Submission (or resubmission).

# Acknowledgments

This course is heavily inspired by a number of other courses in software engineering at other universities, especially:
* [Jon Bell](https://www.jonbell.net/)’s [CS 4530](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Fall-2022/) at Northeastern (special thanks to Jon and his colleagues for their permission to re-use the Covey.Town project materials.)
* [Wes Weimer](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~weimerw/)'s [EECS 481](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~weimerw/481/index.html) at the University of Michigan
* [Michael Ernst](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~mernst/)'s [CSE 403](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse403/19wi/) at the University of Washington

As a student, if you’re looking for more materials (or just a different perspective) on any of the topics we cover, you might start with those (excellent) courses.

----

Commit message:

more tutorials, remove IP1/2 until they're ready, and other changes

about.md, after:

---
title: Syllabus
layout: page
---

# Syllabus

Welcome to CS 490: Guided Design in Software Engineering! This is a
course about building software that satisfies stronger properties than
“it works”: it’s about building software that is correct, reliable,
maintainable, testable, and usable. That is, this course will teach
you about how to build software *well*.

The course is structured around giving you experience in both the
theory (through readings and lectures) and the practice (through
programming assignments and a large group project) of software
engineering.

# Course Outcomes

Official course outcomes:
* Students will be able to explain the major theories and methods applicable to professional software engineering.
* Students will be able to design, implement and evaluate a computer based system to meet desired needs.
* Students will be able to function effectively on a team to accomplish a goal.
* Students will be able to use current techniques, skills and tools necessary for computing practice.

My course design is based additionally on these unofficial outcomes:
* Students will be able to assess the quality of software engineering being done at some future workplace
* Students will be competent software engineers that I wouldn’t be worried about hiring

# Prerequisites

Technically this course requires CS 280 and CS 288, which are both
courses about *how* to program. I will assume in this course that you
know how to program: that is, that if I tell you to go write some
code, you’ll be able to go do it. Since this course focuses on how to
program **well** (i.e., how to engineer software!), you first need to know
how to program at all. I’ll also assume some familiarity with command
line tools, debugging, and using a search engine: I expect that if I
ask you to go write code in some language you’ve never seen before,
you’ll be able to find the necessary components online, find an online
tutorial on the syntax, and figure out how to write that code. Put
another way, I won’t teach you how to write a program: this course
already assumes that you can do that.

As an analogy to carpentry, classes like CS 113 teach you how to build
the equivalent of a software cabinet. CS 280 and CS 288 teach you how
to build something like a software shed: pretty big, but still small
enough for one person to do on their own by combining the skills they
learned building cabinets. CS 490 is about the equivalent of building
a software high-rise: not only is it more than a single-person job,
but also there’s lots of other things you need to worry about that
don’t come up when you’re building a shed.

The first homework assignment is due immediately before the drop date,
and is intended to let you check that you have the basic skills that
will be needed for this course: it requires you to write a
well-defined program in a language you’ve never seen before.

# Topics

* What is Software Engineering?
* Software Engineering process
* Version control
* Code review
* Programming in teams
* Testing, including coverage, continuous integration, test-driven development, mutation testing, and fuzzing
* Requirements and specifications
* Programming languages
* Build systems
* Static analysis
* Debugging
* Architecture and design, including design patterns, microservice design, designing for security, and designing for scale
* Technical debt, refactoring, and maintenance
* DevOps, logging and post-mortems
* Open source software

# Grading and Assignments

Your grade is composed of the following sub-scores (in no particular order):
* 15%: Participation & Professionalism
* 15%: Individual Projects
* 45%: Group Project
* 25%: Exams (10% for the mid-term, 15% for the final)

This class will be curved: when grading, I prefer to use the whole
range available rather than scores in a tight range. That is, if an
assignment is worth 10 points, I will give grades at all the points
between 0 and 10. I will project your raw scores onto the final
distribution twice during the semester:
* after the mid-term exam
* shortly before the final exam

You will be notified of your current projected class grade via email at each of these points.

## Readings and Reading Responses

Each lecture has two kinds of readings: mandatory and "Your Choice"
readings. I expect you to read mandatory readings before coming to
class that day, and reading quizzes (see Participation &
Professionalism, below) will cover the mandatory readings only. During
the semester, you **must** complete **at least two** "Your Choice" readings:
one before the mid-term, and another before the final.
Most "Your Choice" readings are research papers from
the software engineering literature: the idea is that you will do a
deeper dive on two topics that interest you. The "Your Choice" readings
will be checked on the exams with reading questions: see the ["Your Choice" reading page](../projects/optional-readings.html).

## Participation & Professionalism

Your participation & professionalism grade is composed of two scores. 

First, your *Professionalism* score is based on the instructor’s
impression of how well you participated in class, with deductions for
distracting other students and credit for asking and answering
questions (either in person or on the course discussion board).

Second, your *Participation* score is based on reading quizzes (about topics from the mandatory
readings only - quizzes will never cover "Your Choice" readings) at the
beginning of most lectures. You get half credit on these quizzes just
for being there, and half credit for answering the reading questions
correctly (the questions will always be easy if you did the
reading). For full participation, you need to get at least a score of
60% on all quizzes over the whole semester (this gives you space to
e.g., miss a reading quiz because you were sick or have a family
emergency - there are no excuses for missing reading quizzes). Put
another way, you can miss up to 40% of the reading quiz points and
still get full participation points.

These policies are designed to encourage you to come to class. A big
part of the goal of this class is to help you develop an intuition for
what good software engineering looks like, and without coming to class
you won’t get the full benefit of that intuition.

### Remote Participation

Generally this class does not support remote participation: teaching
is much more effective, in my experience, when everyone is physically
present. However, I understand that sometimes you are sick, traveling,
or otherwise unable to come to class. I will arrange for remote participation
in any particular lecture as long as you request it at least one hour
in advance (if you're sick or in some other emergency)
or 24 hours in advance (if you're traveling or otherwise planning to be
unable to come to class). Notify the instructor via email if you need
to participate in a particular class remotely.

### Asking Questions

There is a course [Discord server](https://discord.com/channels/1147225783987875950/1147225783987875953)
which you can use to ask (and answer) questions about any of the course topics or for
help with the homework. Participating on Discord is optional, but if you do
participate in a productive manner (especially by answering other student's questions!), it will have a
positive impact on your participation score.

## Course Project (both Individual and Group)

The assignments and project for this class are designed to mirror the
experiences of a software engineer joining a new development team: you
will be “onboarded” to our codebase, make several individual
contributions, and then form a team to propose, develop and implement
a new feature. The codebase that we’ll be developing on is a remote
collaboration tool called [Covey.Town](https://www.covey.town/).
Covey.Town provides a virtual
meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous
video calls, allowing participants to drift between different
conversations, just like in real life. Covey.Town is inspired by
existing products like [Gather.Town](https://gather.town/), [Sococo](https://www.sococo.com/), and [Gatherly.IO](https://www.gatherly.io/) — but it
is an open source effort, and the features will be proposed and
implemented by you! All implementation will take place in the
TypeScript programming language, using React for the user interface.

At the end of the semester, the instructors and TAs will evaluate all
of the student projects, and select the best (in terms of usability,
code quality, test suite quality, and overall design) to merge into
the [open source Covey.Town codebase on GitHub](https://github.com/neu-se/covey.town) repository. No
additional course credit will be awarded to these teams, but these
students will have the opportunity to receive public recognition for
their project (in the form of a pull request merged into our
repository and acknowledgments in the project’s contributors list).

The project will provide hands-on experience to complement the skills taught in this class, requiring students to be able to:
* Work effectively in a small team
* Enumerate and prioritize development tasks
* Propose, design, implement and test a new feature in an existing non-toy software application
* Write code that their team members can read and review
* Review teammates’ code
* Analyze a proposed software architecture
* Use relevant software tools, such as:
    * TypeScript
    * Visual Studio Code (or similar IDE)
    * Git
    * Mocha and Jest
    * Twilio’s Programmable Video API
    * Postman

## Exams

There are two exams in this course:
* a mid-term, which is held in class about halfway through the semester (worth 10% of your course grade)
* a final exam, which is held during the university-scheduled final exam slot (worth 15% of your course grade)

Both exams will cover a range of topics discussed in lecture
and/or in the mandatory readings, from any time during the
semester up to the point when the exam is held.
The exam will be comprehensive, covering many of the topics
we discuss; I may ask about anything we covered in class or that you
were supposed to read. The exam will be conducted in person. Contact
the course staff privately via email if you are not able to attend for
any reason (e.g., you are sick or need special accommodations) and we will arrange an alternative.
See the [exams page](../exam) for more information.

# Collaboration Policy

Collaboration is generally encouraged in this course, as is consulting
online resources. You are permitted to copy small amounts of code
from any source except another student’s copy of an assignment,
*as long as you cite your source*. “Another student’s copy of an
assignment” also includes students not currently enrolled in the
course - e.g., students who took this class in previous semesters or
took classes that used similar individual projects at other
institutions. To make this more clear, here are some examples of
acceptable and unacceptable collaboration on a programming assignment
in this course:

Acceptable collaborations:
* Discuss problems/solutions/anything with any number of other students (as long as you don’t look at each other’s code).
* Copy a short (about 10 lines or fewer - use your judgment) snippet from [stackoverflow.com](stackoverflow.com) or a similar source, as long as you include a comment with the source URL.
* Copy code written by one of your teammates during the group project for another part of the group project.
* Copy code from the output of a large language model such as ChatGPT that you prompted yourself,
if you include a link to a record of your interaction with the model (e.g., ChatGPT's "share" feature)
as a code comment.

Unacceptable collaborations:
* Copy code directly from another student on an individual project.
* Copy code from another group on a group project.
* Copy a significant portion (more than about 10 lines of code or a single method - use your judgment) of your assignment from the internet, even if you cite your source.
* Copy a short snippet from the internet without citing your source.
* Copy code from the output of a large language model (such as ChatGPT) without citing your source
* Copy code from the output of a large language model prompted by someone other than you (or your teammates,
for the group project)

These rules are intended to mimic what is acceptable in industry when
working as a software engineer: using the resources available to you,
such as your teammates and the wider internet, is always allowed. But,
it would be illegal to copy code from a competing company working on a
similar product.

# Consequences of Violating the Collaboration Policy

(From the University)

“Academic Integrity is the cornerstone of higher education and is central to the ideals of this course and the university. Cheating is strictly prohibited and devalues the degree that you are working on. As a member of the NJIT community, it is your responsibility to protect your educational investment by knowing and following the academic code of integrity policy that is found at: http://www5.njit.edu/policies/sites/policies/files/academic-integrity-code.pdf.   

Please note that it is my professional obligation and responsibility to report any academic misconduct to the Dean of Students Office. Any student found in violation of the code by cheating, plagiarizing or using any online software inappropriately will result in disciplinary action. This may include a failing grade of F, and/or suspension or dismissal from the university. If you have any questions about the code of Academic Integrity, please contact the Dean of Students Office at dos@njit.edu”

# Late Policy

You may use up to two late days on Individual Projects 1 and 2 (in
total: either 2 on one of the two or one on each) without
penalty. Assignments turned in after your second late day will not be
accepted.

Your group may use up to two late days on the Group Projects (in
total). Assignments turned in after your group’s second late day will
not be accepted.

You may not use late days on Individual Project 0, the Group Project
Class Demo, or the Group Project Final Submission (or resubmission).

# Acknowledgments

This course is heavily inspired by a number of other courses in software engineering at other universities, especially:
* [Jon Bell](https://www.jonbell.net/)’s [CS 4530](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Fall-2022/) at Northeastern (special thanks to Jon and his colleagues for their permission to re-use the Covey.Town project materials.)
* [Wes Weimer](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~weimerw/)'s [EECS 481](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~weimerw/481/index.html) at the University of Michigan
* [Michael Ernst](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~mernst/)'s [CSE 403](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse403/19wi/) at the University of Washington

As a student, if you’re looking for more materials (or just a different perspective) on any of the topics we cover, you might start with those (excellent) courses.

----
